To plunge my knife into your sternum
Would be too much effort
You breathe because I am
indifferent the
Wandering soul sits idle in a bush
awaiting your tempered heart
& jovial face
The angry ones swallow whole
all the foolish ones,
prancing about with so little care. You make it easy to hate & hate is how we
survive
I’ve got quite a strong spine
but I’ve acquired a tired neck,
straining to follow your blurry line;
I think it’s time it became a speck.
Now I’m a step away from loony tunes;
placing anvils and traps just for you.
Go and tell your mother
and go tell your friends,
I’ll destroy you like no other;
I’ll put this **** to end.
It’s just all of who you are and what you do,
seems the devil wears Temu too.
I fantasize of a perfect fist kiss
and painting landscapes with your tears.
To me this all sounds like bliss
but to you; your biggest fears.
Now I’m a step away from The Purge,
tracking you down to fulfill my urge.
Go and tell your mother
and go tell your friends,
with a pillow meant to smother,
your bed I will tend.
Eye’s bloodshot red and skin so cold and blue,
but the Devil wears Temu too.
Trust me you don’t want to be
debuting on my list of casualties.
Your many flaws are fatalities
pushing me to hit you rapidly.
So go and tell your mother
then go tell your friends,
I won’t bother going undercover;
I’ve got a message to send.
My anger and aggression is real and so true
‘cause the Devil wears Temu too.
Do you know what it's like to be inside someone's head?
All of a sudden wanting to be dead.
Or maybe full of worry?
Rushing 'round in a hurry.
Maybe full of rage?
Being life's prisoner in its cage.
You can't hide from me.
That's just how it is unfortunately.
Standing in a room just me and you
I'll always know how you feel, it's true
cause being an empath is not a choice
but a chance to give all the hurting a voice.
warm fire smile
I taste your heat
you've always been ablaze
and you've never apologized for setting
fire to the house
(it needed to burn, anyway)
I feel your release
I feel that it's different now
DO YOU HEAR ME?
I SAID IT'S DIFFERENT NOW!
I said I wish I could burn like you
but I am water that never stops spilling
(can fire spill?)
my water grows an algae film when your fire can get you
wherever you want
demanding and tenderizing and
so fucking wild
I adore you in your blaze
I savor your fiery rage
I lick the plate of ashes that remain
For seven months I drank my tea at the window and allowed the sun to cast its rays over my resolution.
I gazed at the space between but never directly into my neighbours house
for I knew the indifference that awaited me in her window of enmity.
During the seventh month my love swelled and pooled at my fingertips, restless with those un-penned words of indignation,
And so I gazed into her window.
Bleeding from my freshest wound,
just rage unfurled into bitter poems,
reruns of us,
of when you offered the belly of my dignity to feed your enemies, revealed a vengeance owed to me,
not of retribution
but of justice.
During the eighth month I wrestled love and grief, rage and memory,
to save you,
to save you from the recklessness my pain threatened to uncage.
I allowed the waves of your betrayal to break over me and pull me back into the sea of childlike grace within myself.
I did not emerge cleansed, pure, or resolved.
Victorious over my animal lust for vengeance,
yet unsatiated in surrendering my desire to deliver you to the same gallows where you made a pariah of me.
And conflicted with answerless questions.
Is vengeance the natural harbinger of karma and therefore my gentleness; justice interrupted?
Is my enduring love my weakness or my courage?
Rage burns deep within my core,
scales of fury line my chest.
Through gritted teeth,
and baited breaths;
My flames now roar
and my heartbeat pounds
beneath my breast.
My wings spread wide
with vengeful might,
as dark thoughts consume me
like smoking hot coals,
and through angry skies,
I take my flight
‘till wrath releases my soul.
I want to be something great,
But according to everyone else,
That's well beyond my years.
Why is it only my youth they comment on?
Are they admitting I'd be better off than them,
If I was aging on 41?
A poet is somebody who writes poem,
Not someone, old, who writes a poem.
So call me a poet, or that is what you are not.
Back in school I submitted my poem for an English assignment.
I got back marks, so I vowed never to use my poems again.
But know all I want to do, is shove my poems in front of you.
Have your opinions about whom a poet should be,
Just don't use them to disrespect me,
And my stupid poem about olivine.
I want you to see this
There's a façade kind of bliss
That in my mind's eye
It sure felt like heaven's kiss.
You want me to see this
Play a part in your petty dreams
Let myself get lost in this shame abyss
Be seduced by your trysts.
If you wanted me to see this
How come we were a miss
And how come your new love's still
An old reminisce
Of memories and an angry's cat
Hiss?
I wanted you to see this
Maybe in the end
We were simply meant
To be each other's deadly miss.
I argue with you inside my head
Angered by words you've never said.
I write our scripts to my design
Then am vexed when you botch your lines.
I feel so mad at you. 