AN ANTHOLOGY OF 
TWO-SPIRIT & 
INDIGIQUEER 
SPECULATIVE FICTION 
EDITED BY JOSHUA 
WHITEHEAD 
Lambda 
Literary 
WINNER 
NATHAN ADLER, GABRIEL CASTILLOUX CALDERON, ADAM GARNET JONES, MARI KURISATO, 
DARCIE LITTLE BADGER, KAI MINOSH PYLE, DAVID A. ROBERTSON, JAYE SIMPSON, NAZBAH TOM 
T 
his bold and breathtaking speculative fiction anthology 
showcases a number of new and emerging Two-Spirit and 
queer Indigenous writers from across Turtle Island. These visionary authors show how queer Indigenous communities can bloom and thrive through utopian narratives that detail the vivacity and enduring strength of 25Qness throughout its plight in the maw of settler colonialism's histories. 
Readers will discover bioengineered Al rats, transplanted trees in space, the rise of a 2SQ resistance camp, a primer on how to survive Indigiqueerly, virtual reality applications, mother ships at sea, and the very bending of space-time continuums queered through NDN time. Love after the End demonstrates the imaginatively queer Two-Spirit futurisms we have been dreaming of since 1492. 
"Each of these smart, stunning, imaginative stories has not only fuelled my imagination but also filled my heart, reminding me how dramatically different it is to experience work written with absolute love." 
-ALICIA ELLIOTT, author of A Mind Spread Out on the Ground 
The stories here are difficult, they're beautiful, they're hilarious and sad and frightening and hopeful. But more than all of that, they guide us back to our- selves and to our relations on a shimmering trail of song and stardust. I am grateful beyond words for the gift of (re)imagining futures where Indigenous love, liberation, and laughter flourish far beyond the settler imaginary." -DANIEL HEATH JUSTICE, author of Why Indigenous Literatures Matter 
ISBN 978-1-55152-811-3 
9781551"528113 
US$18.95 
5 1 8 9 5> 
Fiction (LGBTQ)/Science Fiction/ Anthologies 
ISBN 978-1-55152-811-3 
$21.95 Canada | $18.95 USA 
ARSENAL PULP PRESS 
arsenalpulp.com 
HOW TO SURVIVE THE APOCALYPSE FOR NATIVE GIRLS 
KAI MINOSH PYLE 
1. I'm writing this down so I don't forget. I want to be one of those seventy-year-old women with their photo albums and old diaries, the ones who can recite stories from when they were children or from even further back. Migizi used to say things like "we are future ancestors" 
all the time. 
I think about that a lot. 
2. I started thinking about this the other day and it occurred to me that maybe what we need is an instruction book. How to Survive the Apocalypse for Native Girls. Or maybe, An Indigenous Futurist's Guide to Life. The first one was my idea, because that's what I am, a Native girl surviving the apocalypse (that's what Migizi liked to call it). But then my kookum told me about this old movement from when she was my age. She said that a long time ago, Black people invented some- thing called Afrofuturism. The Afrofuturists imagined the future, but not just any future. They imagined ways that they could get free, ways they could hold their ancestors and descendants in the same hands. And my kookum said that other Indigenous people thought this was a beau- tiful thing, so they began calling their imaginings Indigenous futurisms. 
79 
Love after the End 
My kookum said that sometimes there were border wars. Sometimes, the border wars were literal. I know this because my girlfriend Shanay is Black and Anishinaabe and the Nation didn't want to let her grandma in when she was little, because she didn't have papers. Apparently papers used to be very important. Migizi, who always knew about history things even though they weren't even old, said now we have Kinship instead, but I don't think Migizi always liked Kinship either because sometimes they would argue with council members about it. My kookum won't tell me but I'm pretty sure that's why Migizi had to leave. Because they argued too much. 
3. Here is my first instruction: when the apocalypse happens, make sure you bring your kookum. Mine is named Alicia. She doesn't have an Anishinaabe name, because when she was born they were only starting to get them back. You're going to want your kookum when the apocalypse happens because kookums know everything. Mooshums do too but they can get bossy and think they're right all the time, like the council does. Kookums secretly know that they're right all the time, but they also know that different teachings are correct. 
Oh-maybe I should make that another instruction. That one is important. 
3.5. Different teachings are correct. My kookum says she learned this from an old lady she knew as a kid, a woman from Nigigoonsiminikaaning who taught her the language and also how to set snares, which is really useful after the apocalypse. My kookum named me in her hon- our, Nigig, after the community she came from. The woman from Nigigoonsiminikaaning told my kookum (and lots of other people) that everyone is taught in a different way. You can't say that one teaching is the only correct one, because then you would be putting down someone else's teaching. 
80 
HOW TO SURVIVE THE APOCALYPSE FOR NATIVE GIRLS 
I think this is a good instruction, but sometimes I wonder about it. Migizi told me that a long time ago, around the same time when Indigenous futurism was invented, there were the Skirt Wars. They weren't actual wars, unlike the border wars, but people argued a lot then, about whether Native girls have to wear skirts to ceremony, and how 2spirit people should act during ceremony. Migizi always looked really upset by the Skirt Wars stories, and I don't blame them. They're 2spirit, too, even though I am ekwewaadizid and they are eniniiwaa- dizid. I wonder if anyone ever told Migizi that they had to wear a skirt 
to ceremony. 
4. Maybe I should start off with what I know. If someone (such as a Native girl living after the apocalypse) finds this, how can I guarantee they know about what happened? Will they know about the border wars and the hungry years? Will they know about Kinship and about 
the council? 
I just realized, they won't know who Migizi was. Oh. 
I 
5. I've decided that everything is too much. Also, I'm not sure that I know everything. So I will ask my kookum later. But I can tell you (the future Native girl reading this) about me. I was born to the Crane Clan during the Bakadeng, what people who speak English call the hungry years. was born near the end of the Bakadeng, which started when my parents were young adults after the other kind of borders collapsed, the one they used to call the Medicine Line. As a kid I used to look at the old papers, 
all of them written in English, that my family had to carry around when they crossed those borders. It was my way of remembering my parents, who died when I was only a baby. Now I travel around Anishinaabewaki 
with 
my kookum, with no papers needed at all. I'm sixteen years old and when I grow up I'm going to be a storyteller like Migizi. 
81 
Love after the End 
Migizi. That's the name of my best friend. Migizi was born before me by many years, but we've been friends as long as I can remember. When I was little Migizi used to tell me stories about 2spirit people from a long time ago. I used to think they knew every Anishinaabe 
2spirit who ever lived. 
Migizi was the one who helped me realize that 2spirit is a thing I could be. That I could be a Native girl-that I could even be a Native girl who loves other girls! What a wonderful discovery. 
Not everyone liked Migizi as much as I did. They were the one who gave me this book, though, so I feel like I should explain about them. When Migizi got their new name, the elders decided to name them after Eagle. I don't know why they did that, but it always reminds me of this story about Eagle. You know, the one where Eagle flies around the earth every day to make sure there is at least one person putting down tobacco and being a good person? See, Migizi has this thing about them. They are trying so hard to always be a good person that it makes everyone around them want to be a better person too. 
6. Here's an instruction: Love is good. Today I saw Shanay again for the first time in a few months. My kookum and I travel around so she can do ceremony for people, and also because she's the gossip of Anishinaabewaki and has to know everything about everyone so they can ask her what's going on far away in Baawitigong or Onigamiinsing or Obishikokaang. Shanay just lives in Miskoziibiing all the time because she's studying with her grandma to become a doctor. Shanay's grandma is one of the best doctors, because she was trained both. Anishinaabe-way and in one of the old universities before the borders broke down. She likes to joke that it's a good thing the apocalypse happened, because that way she didn't have to pay off her student loans, which were apparently a thing that, like money, used to be a big prob- lem for people. 
82 
HOW TO SURVIVE THE APOCALYPSE FOR NATIVE GIRLS 
So I saw Shanay and I was reminded about Love. Love is part of Kinship laws-it is the Kinship laws. Of course in reality Kinship is just as much about hating each other and messing each other up as it is about loving each other, but without Love there wouldn't be any 
Kinship at all. 
When I saw Shanay today, she said, "Wow, Nigig, I almost forgot how gorgeous you are." I blushed a lot, could feel the warmth in my face. Then she pulled me into her arms and kissed my nose and my cheeks and finally my mouth and I melted. 
That's Love. 
7. I met Shanay at the 2spirit youth potluck in Miskoziibiing that Migizi took me to a while after we had the feast announcing I was a girl. She sat down in the chair next to me and gave me a little smile, and we introduced ourselves to each other. 
"I'm from here originally, but my kookum and I were living in Onigamiinsing last year," I told her. Then I corrected myself. "Well, Baawitigong a little bit too. Oh, and before that, Nogojiwanong. 
"" 
"Wow, you've been all over!" Shanay smiled ruefully and sighed. 
"I've lived here my whole life. My grandma's dad was from the south, outside Anishinaabewaki, and I've always wanted to learn about other places, but the truth is I get nervous even when I go too far outside Miskoziibiing for fasting." 
"Aww, well, that's because you're fasting, you're all alone in the woods!" I reached out a hand and touched her shoulder. She blinked for a second, her face a little flushed, and I quickly pulled away, not sure what had gotten into me. I coughed, and continued, "Travelling can be lonely too. But when you're doing it with someone you love... that's 
when it's the best." 
As she opened her mouth to reply, Shanay was drowned out by the sound of Migizi on the hand drum. Around us everyone was circling 
83 
Love after the End 
up for a round dance. I stood up, and made an awkward gesture at the 
crowd. "You wanna ...?" 
For a terrifying second I thought she might say no. But then Shanay got up and, as she headed toward the circle, she turned just enough to 
grab my hand and tug me along with her. 
We danced every song that night, and my hand never left hers, the warmth spreading from the place where we touched throughout my 
whole body. We've been inseparable ever since. 
8. Shanay and I talked for a long time after I got back to Miskoziibiing. I told her about this book that I'm writing and she had some sugges- tions, so here are her ideas. 
SHANAY'S SUGGESTION #1: "Everyone has ancestors, but not everyone knows theirs." This is very wise, I think. I know most of my ancestors going way back because of the old papers from the Nation and from the government that existed before the Nation, but because of the border wars, some people don't have those records, like Shanay. And some people, like Migizi, don't have kookums to tell them the stories. 
SHANAY'S SUGGESTION #2: She thinks I should talk more about Kinship. Shanay is a little bitter about Kinship, like Migizi, except she has even more reason to be bitter since her grandma was originally rejected from the Nation. See, when the borders broke, people decided that Kinship should be our main law instead. Except the problem was that Kinship means different things to different people. And sometimes people who should see each other as kin, inawemaagan, reject each other. That's what happened to Shanay's grandma, until one of the clan leaders adopted her. 
84 
HOW TO SURVIVE THE APOCALYPSE FOR NATIVE GIRLS 
SHANAY'S SUGGESTION #3: "You talk a lot about Migizi." That's what she said. I think she means I talk too much about Migizi. When she said this to me, I felt my face harden. It was the opposite of melting. 
"What is wrong with talking about Migizi?" I asked her. She made expression that was sad and disappointed and fond at the same time. "Nigig," she told me. "You have to move on. Talking about Migizi all the time isn't going to bring them back." 
"Migizi isn't dead," I said to her. Her face became pinched like she had bitten a lemon (a fruit I tasted once recently which is very tart). Then she rubbed her eyes very hard and when she looked up again I could see that there were some tears there. Migizi was my best friend but I forget sometimes that other people loved them too. 
Shanay took my hand in her hand and squeezed. "Nigig," she said again. “You have to learn to live with what is here now. You have to just be." 
9. Sometimes Love is not so good. When that happens Kinship can sometimes help, and sometimes it can hurt. That is what happened to Migizi. 
I still don't know when Migizi was born, but I know they came of age around the time I was born, during the Bakadeng. We call that time the hungry years not just because people often went without enough food, but also because there was often another kind of hunger. The kind of hunger that causes people to do terrible things: wiindigo hunger. 
Here is a teaching about wiindigoog for you: Wiindigoog are more than just cannibals. They are possessed by a hunger that only increases every time they try to fill it. That hunger can be for anything-food, drugs, sex, love, but most of all, power. Migizi's parents were the kind of people who were infected by the wiindigo spirit of the Bakadeng. Migizi never talked about it, not even with me, but they had scars on their hands and arms like burn marks. They wore long sleeves to cover 
85 
Love after the End 
them most days, but they stood out if you noticed them, still faintly 
redder than the brown of Migizi's skin. 
Once, when I first met Migizi, I asked them where they grew up. Migizi's eyes went a little blurry, like they were looking far into the dis- tance. Their breath turned shallow and their whole body tensed. They reminded me of how deer react when they spot you in the woods with a gun. I stood still, as though my own sudden moves might scare Migizi 
just like one of those deer. 
"A place that doesn't exist anymore," Migizi said finally, their 
breath starting to deepen again. 
"Where did it go?” I asked. I was just a kid and didn't know how to read the words in Migizi's face. 
For a long moment I didn't think Migizi was going to answer me. They were still staring ahead, not looking at me, their lips held tightly shut. But then they said, very quietly, "It was consumed by wiindi- goog." And they refused to say anything else. 
It wasn't until I began to realize that I was not the boy everyone thought I was that Migizi told me more. When I told them I was going to talk to my kookum to see if we could have a feast for me being a girl, Migizi's jaw became tense and they were silent for a minute. 
"Nigig," they said to me, "I'm going to tell you something, and I don't want to scare you. But it's something you should know about." 
Which made me scared just on principle. But then Migizi told me. They told me about how they had asked their parents, as a young 
teen- 
ager, if they could cut their hair and ask an elder for a new name, one that didn't end in kwe. They told me about how their mother had cried and their father had screamed, how they had left in the dead of night. They told me how the people they had grown up with, their close and extended kin, had one by one shut their doors in Migizi's face, even though it was winter in Anishinaabewaki. 
86 
HOW TO SURVIVE THE APOCALYPSE FOR NATIVE GIRLS 
"I survived that night," Migizi said slowly. "I went west to Miskoziibiing, found another 2spirit who showed me safe places to 
sleep." 
"Why are you telling me this?" I whispered. 
Migizi reached out suddenly, wrapped an arm around me, and smooshed me against their shoulder. "I just want you to know, Nigig. I want you to know that for some people, inawemaagan doesn't include people like me and you." 
I didn't want to understand then. "But the Kinship laws-' 
وو 
I could feel Migizi shake their head. "Kinship is a two-sided coin, Nigig. You always gotta ask yourself, who is being excluded here?" 
10. Instruction inspired by today: Watch those in power carefully. That is what my kookum always tells me when she makes me attend council even though I'm not old enough to participate yet. I've been going since I was little. That's where I first saw Migizi, actually. They were arguing with the council, of course, even back then when they were just my age. 
Today Shanay, her grandma, my kookum, and I all went to the western door council meeting. It was my first time at council without Migizi, and I tried not to think about that too hard. Shanay's grandma gave a report on the situation in the Miskoziibiing hospital, and a lot of people frowned while listening. Shanay's hand gripped mine tightly the entire time. I didn't miss the looks a few people gave Shanay and her grandma when they walked in. A little tension in the room flowed out when Shanay's grandma started talking—she is one of the few people of my kookum's generation who grew up speaking Anishinaabemowin, and her accent is flawless. Still, my other hand, the one not holding Shanay's, curled around the edge of my seat until my knuckles started to hurt. The news about the hospital wasn't so good. 
One of the council members, a woman from Eagle Clan, stood up after Shanay's grandma. Her voice filled the room even without shouting. 
87 
Love after the End 
"Perhaps supplies wouldn't be so low," she said, looking straight at Shanay's grandmother, "if you weren't treating every single stranger 
who comes to your door." 
There were quiet gasps, but just as many people seemed to be nod- ding. The word she used for stranger was meyaagizid-someone who 
was not kin. 
Shanay's grandma looked right back at her and said in her forever- steady voice, "Since it was established, the Miskoziibiing hospital has always made it our policy to treat all who need our services. Whether 
they are inawemaagan or meyaagizid.” 
The Eagle Clan woman's face was stormy. “Policy it may be.” Her tone was slow, deliberate, and a little vicious. "But all must still abide by the laws of Kinship within Anishinaabewaki." 
"Kinship does not exclude kindness toward strangers," my kookum said loudly, standing up next to Shanay's grandma. The Eagle Clan woman's frown deepened. I think she realized she was facing two respected women who were her elders, and that the very Kinship laws she was arguing for insisted she defer to them. She sat down hard and began whispering furiously to the council members next to her. 
My kookum leaned over then and said very low in my ear the instruction that I just shared: Watch those in power carefully. That's why I wrote this down. And my kookum was right, because writing it down made me remember that Migizi was from Eagle Clan, and the woman who argued with Shanay's grandma was the one in charge of 
their fate. 
11. Sometimes, when it's the apocalypse, you have to just do things for yourself. 
My kookum won't tell me about what happened to Migizi. When I ask, she gets a very pained expression on her face, and refuses to speak 
88 
HOW TO SURVIVE THE APOCALYPSE FOR NATIVE GIRLS 
about it. But once I saw the Eagle Clan woman and the way she talked to my kookum and Shanay's grandma, I knew what I had to do. 
After the council meeting was over, I told Shanay and my kookum that I was going to the bathroom. I followed the Eagle Clan woman out of the council chamber and into a back hallway. I guess I wasn't great at being sneaky, because as soon as I shut the door (as quietly as I possibly could) she turned around and put her hands on her hips. "Well?" 
My tongue felt thick and knotted. She took this as a sign to start talking. "You want to give me a lecture too, like those relatives of yours?" she snorted, and anger started to get hot inside me at her con- descending tone. My fingers pressed into my palms, and I could feel my nails leaving little marks in my flesh. "Please. I have better things to do than listen to a child's righteousness." And she started to turn away. "Wait," I finally said. "Wait." She kept walking. "I just want to know what happened to Migizi!" 
The Eagle Clan woman stopped dead. She turned back around to face me slowly. Then she walked right up to me, and bent down until face was inches from mine. "What did you say?" 
I swallowed the dryness in my throat. "Migizi. My friend. I want to know what happened to them." 
There was a funny glint to her eyes as she studied my face. "That's right, they did have a little pet, didn't they?" She smiled, sweet and slimy. "Migizi is gone, child." 
"You can't exile someone just because you don't like them,” I said hotly. "Kinship-" 
“Kinship is exactly the reason why that freak had to be gotten rid of," she spat. "Do you even know what they did?" I blinked and the woman's eerie smile came back. "You don't, do you? Ah, Migizi, Migizi. They were always trying to pick a fight over the Kinship laws. I wondered for a long time why they were so hostile about that-but 
89 
Love after the End 
then when you've murdered your entire family, I guess your only hope 
is to overthrow the norms of Kinship." 
I stood there, slack-jawed. "What?" 
The Eagle Clan woman pulled back from me a bit, looking ever more satisfied. "You heard me. Migizi slaughtered their own inawe- maaganag. Set their own house on fire, left the entire village to burn. 
And ran like a coward." 
There was nothing I wanted in that moment more than to get as far away from the Eagle Clan woman as I could and never see her again. But my entire body had become too heavy to move. "You're lying!” 
"Look, I'm sorry." She shook her head. "That grandmother of yours should never have let them come near you. But I promise you, Migizi is gone by now." 
In Anishinaabemowin, the word maajaa can mean two things. Usually, it means someone has left, gone somewhere else. But other times, it means- 
"They're dead, child. No one survives long outside the protective network of the Nation." She grimaced. "Why do you think so many meyaagizijig want to come here, anyway?" 
I was shaking all over by then. My mouth wouldn't work properly. After a minute of waiting, the Eagle Clan woman shook her head again, muttered to herself, and walked away. I watched her go all the way down the hallway before I felt like I could move again. 
12. I always knew terrible things had happened during the Bakadeng, and before, during the border wars, and even before that, when pow- go fuzzy erful states ruled the world. My kookum sometimes would when she talked about it, would get tears in her eyes or shaky hands. Especially when I was little, these moods scared me, and I would try to comfort her with rabbit stew or a funny story. It was only as I got older that I realized that there is only so much you can do to help. 
90 
HOW TO SURVIVE THE APOCALYPSE FOR NATIVE GIRLS 
Shanay had whispered to me once that when she grew up, she wanted to specialize in medicine for people whose minds and hearts were in pain, like my kookum and Migizi. Maybe someday she will invent just the right combination of food and laughter to cure sadness. 
"Hey," Shanay said when I told her what the Eagle Clan woman had said. "You don't know what happened. We don't know the full story. You remember Migizi's scars. Someone did that to them." 
I froze, remembering how much of Migizi's skin was covered by those burns, and Shanay grabbed my hand. 
"Nigig, when I go with my grandma to give people medicine, some- times they are hurt really bad. And sometimes..." She had a peculiar tender look on her face. "Scars aren't the only marks that violence 
leaves behind." 
"Why wouldn't they tell us, then?” My voice broke as I half-shouted the words. Shanay pulled me into her arms and I curled into her, tucked 
head against her neck, and tried to breathe. 
my 
"Maybe,” she murmured against my hair, "Migizi was just trying 
to protect us. 
99 
When I was holding Shanay like that, I didn't say anything else. But I'm writing the truth down here. And the truth is, when you're a Native girl living in the apocalypse, there's only so much anyone can protect you from. 
13. I'm crying as I write this. I don't know what to do. I don't have any words of wisdom for you, future Native girl surviving the apocalypse. What is there to say when you're going to lose yet another person who 
you love most in the world? 
Back up. Deep breath. 
Early this morning, Shanay came to me in tears, panicking. Her grandma came in close behind her, looking for my kookum. As they talked, Shanay told me what had happened. 
91 
Love after the End 
The council said Shanay's grandma broke the laws of Kinship in 
over our 
her work at the hospital. They say she prioritized meyaagizijig inawemaaganag. They said her Kinship ties were always suspect, since her father was not Anishinaabe. They said she and her descendants had forty-eight hours to leave Anishinaabewaki. Forever. 
"It's not fair," Shanay sobbed against my shoulder. 
"Shh," I whispered, stroking her hair lightly. Behind us I heard my kookum's voice raise as she cursed out the council members one by one. “We'll figure this out," I said. I was buzzing, ready to take on the council myself. "You're not leaving. I promise." 
I said those things and I meant them, but I don't know how I can possibly make them true. 
14. Dear Nigig, 
When you find this, I hope you are not too angry with me. We've known each other for so long, and there's so much I still haven't told you. Not because of you, see, but because I'm still scared. Scared that the wiindigoog have followed me even here. 
I wish I could tell you that what they will say about me isn't true. It is. But it's not the whole story. What does it mean to break Kinship with someone who has never regarded you as their kin? I know you and Shanay have seen the burns on my skin (you're not as subtle as you think, my friend). The people who did that to me should have claimed me, should have treated me with love. 
The night I left they tried to burn me. They were laughing, telling me if I wanted to be a faggot so bad I should burn like one. Nigig, I was so scared. I fought them and I ran and I didn't look back to see what happened. I didn't want it to happen like that, but I'm not sorry I got away. Maybe that makes me the monster they think I am. I don't 
know anymore. 
92 
HOW TO SURVIVE THE APOCALYPSE FOR NATIVE GIRLS 
They will try to tell you that they exiled me, that there is no way to survive outside the Nation. Don't believe them, Nigig. Don't believe that the "strangers" who make their way into our lands are without 
their own ways to survive. 
You've always been so strong, Nigig. Trust yourself. Hold the ones you love close. I know you'll find your own way. 
53.713287, -114.393061 
15. I guess I lied that day when I promised Shanay she wouldn't leave. But I didn't know what I know now. There's more to the world than 
what I've seen. 
Migizi is out there somewhere. My kookum says she knows how to read the numbers they left me. I'm going to find them, and Shanay is coming with me. We're stuck together, her and me. I'm not losing 
her, not ever. 
I told her that this morning as we packed our bags, and her eyes closed but no tears fell. 
When it came time to leave, the four of us—Shanay, her grandma, my kookum, and me-gathered together in the kitchen. My kookum looked at me for a long time. 
"I'll see you again," she said at last, not even a waver in her voice. When I started to protest, she held up a hand. "Someone needs to stay here to fight the council. To find a new way to hold our people together. 
وو 
My body was heavy and I felt more tired than I had ever been in my entire life. I thought about every time my kookum had made me lead her through the trails of Anishinaabewaki, the ways she had showed me how to check the trees and stars to find my way. I thought, too, about the ceremonies she taught me and the ways to talk to people in new places, how to make meyaagizijig into inawemaaganag. I didn't know what world Migizi was living in now, the world outside Anishinaabewaki, 
93 
Love after the End 
but as I saw the steadiness in my kookum's gaze, I felt like maybe I 
was ready for this. 
There was no way to say all that, so I just nodded instead. She reached for me and tugged me close. I heard Shanay sniffle and her 
grandma murmur her reassurance. 
"Giga-waabamin miinawaa,” I said, repeating my kookum's good- 
bye back to her. "I mean it." 
She smiled at me. "I know, my little Nigig. Bring back some good 
stories for me." 
16. So here we are, at the edge of Anishinaabewaki. Right where you 
come in. 
I knew what I had to do the minute I saw you there in the crowd of people protesting the council. I could hear your voice through the singing and slogans. And then you looked at me, and you smiled a little and gave me that nod that says, “I see you.' 
Maybe this, too, is Kinship. 
So I'm passing this on to you. If I know my kookum, there will be a lot of changes happening in the Nation soon. And you might need the help of an instruction guide for a 2spirit girl living in the apocalypse. 
I don't know if or when I will come home. Or if home will even mean the same thing to me once I've left. But I hope that you'll read what I've written here and remember the stories of the people that I love. Shanay, my kookum, Migizi. And when you've read it all, you can add stories of your own. 
I don't know your name. I don't know who your kin are. But I know you're worth it, niijiikwe. And I know now that the only way to survive the apocalypse is to make your own world. 
So let's get started. 
94