Lay all your flowers out.
Lie on the bed where you made your vow
Gather the tears you shed
And say
“I will love you until I’m dead.”
Now we’re layin’ out all the white roses
And we’re tryin’ so hard not to cry
And the preacher starts his prayin’
Sayin’
“It’s all better in the sky.”
We laughed until we cried.
We took off all of our clothes
And swam one last time
And we drank to let it go
Locked arm in arm
And three sheets to the wind
Hope my God is a wine drinker
You said that you wanted me to be happy
And not to linger with regret
If you love me, let me go
Happy, happy, happy, yet dead
Like the calm waves of the ocean,
The gentle moonlight from above.
Like the waterfalls on a clear day,
Like the birds that sing their song in May.
Like the fog in the forest,
Like the rainbow after rain.
Like the snow near a lake,
The hills that nature made.
Like the feeling of nostalgia,
Like the smell of the summer.
Like the dream that brings you rest,
That's the beauty you possess.
my world surrounded by gray clouds
a moment’s happiness is all i seek
my heart covered in magoa
a affectionate touch is all I need
i want his life
not jealous but rather envious
judged by the divine power
my latibule lies in his world
I open this door in front of me
it opens to the room I had when I was four maybe three
the walls are painted lilac and I count the beds in the room
one,
two,
three
for me and my two older sisters their names are Rachel and Brittany
I hear a giggle and look down
it's me as a little girl and oh my god that's right, my hair was a lighter shade of brown
she has on her princess sleeping gown and tells me "Here, follow me, I'll show you around, it's nighttime now or I'd ask mommy if we could go to the playground"
we're playing with her toys and she tells me "you look sorta familiar" I smile and ask her "do you think we look kinda similar?" I see her eyes moving and her brain searching her mind's perimeter she says "a little, can you tell me your name? I'm a good listener"
"I'm you from a time yet to come" I say sweetly just above a whisper, she climbs into my arms and on her forehead I kiss her
I tell her all the wonders she will see, who not to trust and all the amazing people she will meet, I tell her that some things never change; like how we still love to walk in our bare feet and how people still tell us "no one I've ever met before has been this sweet" I tell her there will be things you feel are left unsaid and incomplete and there will be times where you're biggest strength is to know when to retreat, and oh... you're going to fall deeply in love with a man, he's a musician and both his heart and drum play to their own beat, she sings with excitement "I cant wait to be older!! I've always wondered what kind of girl I'll be!!!" I look at her lovingly "you will grow into your power and strength- you are the rarest pearl from the sea- your life will be an amazing one, I love you and it's time for me to leave, but know I'm so proud of all the things you will achieve, your life will flourish sweet girl, you're in for such a treat"
How wonderfully divine
It is to be human;
To hold mortality in the mind,
And infinity inside.
Behind
My eyes are boundaries of grey,
yet,
A promise so colorful.
And I am thankful, for
I have claimed it
Ten thousand times over.
I hope the reflection in my mirror
Is happy
I hope she has lots of friends
And that she smiles with her eyes
I hope the reflection in my mirror
Knows she's worthy
I hope she doesn't lay in bed
For hours at a time
Sad and unmotivated
I hope the reflection in my mirror
Is confident
I hope she is brave enough
To start a conversation
And that she isn't too scared
To leave her home
I hope the reflection in my mirror
Never gives up
I hope that she can see
A future for herself
And that she never loses hope in me
Because I haven't lost hope in her
It’s heartening the wondrous things you can do
All it takes is a kind word or two.
A friendly touch or warm smile and “hi”
Melts someone’s defenses in the blink of an eye.
You’ve been there yourself you know it’s true
Frozen and hurt by negative words said to you.
All to frequent it doesn’t have to be that way
Offer a compliment instead and make their day.
Perhaps initially a fight, but a battle you can win
Kind words flow freely, when you’re happy from within.
Good idea, nice job, your haircut looks great
Offer your kind words quickly, before they’re too late.
Generous, dependable, thoughtful are positive seeds to sow
Own the words first, then to others they can flow.
Charming, radiant, talented are words that bring cheer
Powerful words those around you long to hear.
Creative, gracious, you’re so fun to be around
All part of a marvelous new vocabulary you have found.
Remember the secret is to first be happy within
The kind words that follow will win many a friend.
Hearts frozen or melted it’s entirely up to you
Make a difference to someone else...today...
with just a Kind Word or Two.
Like the calm waves of the ocean,
The gentle moonlight from above.
Like the waterfalls on a clear day,
Like the birds that sing their song in May.
Like the fog in the forest,
Like the rainbow after rain.
Like the snow near a lake,
The hills that nature made.
Like the feeling of nostalgia,
Like the smell of the summer.
Like the dream that brings you rest,
That's the beauty you possess.
Some days i still love this girl,
I cant stop that whirl;
I have ignored, rebuttled, analysed and rejected,
Any such thought that expelled love suspected,
I have slept, avoided, attacked and awoken,
Yet nothing can succeed in making that entity broken.
It’s not that i love her, in the same way that i did,
but the memory created wont keep on its lid,
and now unequivocally, we are never going to happen,
so i rationalise repeatedly, but the feeling doesn’t lessen.
It changes and it molds;
Reaping the left-behind-cold,
Knowing existing is incorrect,
Knowing it will never actually connect.
Then other days, i dont feel this insurrection.
I cant imagine her even existing in that section.
Yes she is still complicated, wild and free
And in my brain i know we’ll never be,
But it doesn’t disastrously disarm me
Or actually even silence the way i see
Not any more, not so dramatically.
It becomes like a memory,
The happy, the hurt, her heart,
It becomes like a memory,
All that uncertainty at the start
It becomes like a memory,
My refusal to explore the friendship sacrifition
It becomes like a memory,
When I thought I would ever opt into admission
My poetry will keep being written,
The idea came originally from her
And that is something I will take with me,
That’s one thing I know for sure.
I will love her forever,
Not in the same strong way,
but she was my first true love
She’ll be that til the end of my days
You say tell me everything
And i tell you everything
I say tell me more, and you say less
Make me regret I told you so much
You made a mess of me with your touch and your ways
But I knew you would, I've known for more than just hours and days
I've known for so many years, that one day you would break me
I knew what fool you would make me
But I let you, because you gave me bliss
But promise me, let me go with a soft hug, and a heartfelt last kiss
your smile confounds:
how it opens at my touch
yet, closes softly,
like a snare that traps my defiance;
keeps me modest.
i adore how your lower lip spasms with desire,
while your upper lip struggles to hide it.
i know there’s more to your smile,
for i have kissed you -
with an undying thirst
that respawns at the close of day.
i’ll forever be in awe -
of the benevolence you summon
with your subtleties;
keeps me honest.
i long for your smile;
i long for your love;
i long for another day -
with you.
I thought for so long
You would have golden clouds
Shining over the blue skies
A queen beyond my worth
Who knew what I desired for
Was wheat fields over the earth
The look in your eyes was tantalizing
Your lips were moist like morning dew
Your hands were trembling like thunder
Your hair were soft like strands of sand
And I was transfixed by your beauty.
I am so happy that I call you my lover
I could hold you in all our lifetimes.
I would wipe your tears as they fall like autumn leaves.
Truth be told, I find your touch so Catastrophic.
When you trace your fingers against my jaw,
my body melts into your touch.
Lovers in a dying flame,
I want to take you all before I perish.
Darling, the wounds you gave me are Catastrophic.