Like the calm waves of the ocean,
The gentle moonlight from above.
Like the waterfalls on a clear day,
Like the birds that sing their song in May.
Like the fog in the forest,
Like the rainbow after rain.
Like the snow near a lake,
The hills that nature made.
Like the feeling of nostalgia,
Like the smell of the summer.
Like the dream that brings you rest,
That's the beauty you possess.

Some days i still love this girl,
I cant stop that ******* whirl;

I have ignored, rebuttled, analysed and rejected,
Any such thought that expelled love suspected,

I have slept, avoided, attacked and awoken,
Yet nothing can succeed in making that entity broken.

It’s not that i love her, in the same way that i did,
but the memory created wont keep on its lid,

and now unequivocally, we are never going to happen,
so i rationalise repeatedly, but the feeling doesn’t lessen.

It changes and it molds;
Reaping the left-behind-cold,
Knowing existing is incorrect,
Knowing it will never actually connect.

Then other days, i dont feel this insurrection.
I cant imagine her even existing in that section.

Yes she is still complicated, wild and free
And in my brain i know we’ll never be,
But it doesn’t disastrously disarm me
Or actually even silence the way i see

Not any more, not so dramatically.

It becomes like a memory,
The happy, the hurt, her heart,

It becomes like a memory,
All that uncertainty at the start

It becomes like a memory,
My refusal to explore the friendship sacrifition

It becomes like a memory,
When I thought I would ever opt into admission

My poetry will keep being written,
The idea came originally from her
And that is something I will take with me,
That’s one thing I know for sure.

I will love her forever,
Not in the same strong way,
but she was my first true love
She’ll be that til the end of my days

You say tell me everything
And i tell you everything

I say tell me more, and you say less
Make me regret I told you so much
You made a mess of me with your touch and your ways
But I knew you would, I've known for more than just hours and days
I've known for so many years, that one day you would break me
I knew what fool you would make me
But I let you, because you gave me bliss
But promise me, let me go with a soft hug, and a heartfelt last kiss

your smile confounds:
how it opens at my touch
yet, closes softly,
like a snare that traps my defiance;

keeps me modest.

i adore how your lower lip spasms with desire,
while your upper lip struggles to hide it.
i know there’s more to your smile,
for i have kissed you -
with an undying thirst
that respawns at the close of day.

i’ll forever be in awe -
of the benevolence you summon
with your subtleties;

keeps me honest.

i long for your smile;
i long for your love;
i long for another day -
with you.


I thought for so long
You would have golden clouds
Shining over the blue skies
A queen beyond my worth
Who knew what I desired for
Was wheat fields over the earth


The look in your eyes was tantalizing
Your lips were moist like morning dew
Your hands were trembling like thunder
Your hair were soft like strands of sand
And I was transfixed by your beauty.
I am so happy that I call you my lover
I could hold you in all our lifetimes.
I would wipe your tears as they fall like autumn leaves.
Truth be told, I find your touch so Catastrophic.
When you trace your fingers against my jaw,
my body melts into your touch.
Lovers in a dying flame,
I want to take you all before I perish.
Darling, the wounds you gave me are Catastrophic.